welcome to vlsi lecture series i
professor it is dulakia
is going to explain you comparison of
static and dynamic cmos in this video
so when we talk about static cmos then
in its static cmos structure you will be
finding here we have vdd
after that we have pull
up network which is made up of pmos
that can have k inputs
then we have pull down network
and this pull down network that is made
up of nmos
that can have k inputs this is connected
to ground
and here we take output
so this is the basic structure which is
there with static cmos
as if we talk about dynamic cmos
structure
then here we have vdd after that we have
pmos with gated clock
then we have pull down network
and in pull down network we have nmos
with n with k inputs
after that we have another gated clock
and mass then we have ground over here
and here we have output and there can be
load capacitance cl over here
so these are the basic structure which
is there with static cmos and dynamic
cmos
now if you observe how many transistors
are there
then you see in static cmos if we talk
about
nmos then nmos is made up of
pull down network so that there are k
inputs so we can say there can be k
number of nmos and if we talk about pmos
then pull up network is made up of pmos
so with k input there can be k
number of pmos and
as if we talk about dynamic cmos
then in that if we calculate total
number of nmos
then with this k number of inputs with
this pull down network there can be k
n mass plus one gated clock
nmos is there and if we talk about pmos
then only one gated clock pmos is there
so number of transistors that is less in
dynamic cmos
and major effect
that is there because of pmos pmos is
less as
pmos size is more here static cmos
circuit
is having larger size that one can say
right and here you can say
in dynamic cmos only one pmos is there
so size
of dynamic cmos that will be less
now when we talk about capacitive
loading then capacitive loading
that is happening more due to pmos
as pmo size is more right so in static
cmos
capacitive loading will be more and in
dynamic cmos
only one pmos is there so capacitive
loading
is less
and one more thing that i can say
because of more pmos which is there in
this
static cmos switching characteristic is
slower
while due to only one pmos is there in
dynamic cmos
switching characteristic is faster
now there are some disadvantages which
is there with dynamic cmos
see when we connect dynamic cmos in
cascading
at that time there is a possibility of
false operation
so there are cascading issues which is
there in dynamics
cmos and those cascading issues that is
not there
in static cmos
now when we see operation of
dynamic cmos then it is compulsory to
have pre-charged by this gated clock
while that pre-charge is not required in
static cmos
so in dynamic cmos we need to have
pre-charge
for operation and in static cmos we
don't need pre-charge for operation
if you see my previous videos based on
dynamic cmos and static cmos
then in dynamic cmos i have told
when you have output is equals to logic
at that time output stays in high
impedance mode
right while over here in static cmos
as if you have output is equals to logic
then it does not have high impedance
mode right and
because of that you will be finding
output
is equals to logic 1 in dynamic cmos
affected by
noise with larger extent right
so noise immunity is lower
in case of dynamic cmos compared to
static cmos
now when we talk about working of
dynamic
cmos then in its working
if you observe my previous videos then i
have explained
because of charge sharing there is a
leakage of charge
which happens in dynamic cmos while
leakage of charge that does not happens
in static cmos
so if you see overall comparison
then dynamic cmos is faster it is
there with lower switching time
characteristic
as well as capacitive loading effect is
less
and size of circuit is small as if we
talk about static cmos
then it is slower in its
switching characteristic because of more
number of pmos
as well as it is having higher loading
capacitance because of pmos structure
and its size is even large compared to
dynamic cmos
but this static cmos does not have
issues of cascading and leakage of
capacitance
while that is there with dynamic cmos so
this is how comparison is there with
static cmos and dynamic cmos
i hope that you have understood this
video thank you so much for watching
this video
please do give your valuable suggestions
the reason is your suggestions matters
to me and based on that in future
i'll be making videos which will be
solving your queries so please do give
your valuable suggestions thank you so
much